---
layout: post
comments: true
categories: Government
---

## Interview

**Subect :** Alberto Casey \\
**Role:** former leader of the "self-organized," Fundación Barbechando \\
**Place:** Buenos Aires \\
**Date:** July 2, 2015 


## Annotation

***This is based on notes the authors took after turning off the recorder***: The interviewed explained to the authors that roadblocks sought to target trucks transporting agricultural products, not tractors, which use secondary roads. These farmers were crucial in the roadblocks of 2008 but less influential on the lockouts. Their emergence was associated to perceptions of weak leadership in the local organizations or their absence at the local level. The self-organized were also very vocal in local assemblies during the 2008 protests as well as critical of the division of rural organization into four associations that weakened their bargaining power as noticed by the literature. Their emergence points to the difference between lockouts and roadblocks as tools for contention with regard to the need of local organizations to coordinate the action in a way that is visible and prevents free-riding.


##### Authors

What’s the degree of representation of the political organizations of the sector and technical organizations? What are the self-organized producers (***autoconvocados***)?” [1:30]


##### Alberto Casey

[1:13] The majority of producers wants the unity of these organizations and our dream is that, like in Brazil, they form a single organization which includes not only producers but others also involved with the activities based on the land. Not only the chains for added value. For instance, the regional economies, which are linked to the land and are far away from the ports and are labor intensive products, like fruit, olives, grapes, etc. They are linked to the land not only in an extensive way, such as grain and cow cattle, as people associate with the countryside… [4:50] … [6:22] I consider myself a self-organized producer since 2008 due to precaution of the organizations to defend the producer, to go out to fight for the recognition of the sector. **The demands were not only economic but also the need to achieve the recognition of society for the ‘men of the countryside,’ which is forgotten or distrusted despite the role we have in Argentina**.” [7:49]
	

